---
sidebar_position: 8
title: 第8章 Systems and Controls
---

1. Managing Conflicts of Interest
2. Reporting to Clients
3. Client Records
4. Management Arrangements

This syllabus area will provide approximately 4 of the 50 examination questions

78

100

75

76

77

---

Systems and Controls

1. Managing Conflicts of Interest

Learning Objective

8.1.1 Know the requirements for managing conflicts of interest (Capital Market Institutions Regulations Part 5, Chapter 4, Article 41)

8.1.2 Know how an effective Chinese wall should operate (Capital Market Institutions Regulations Part 5, Chapter 1, Article 30)

8.1.3 Know the requirements governing employees' personal dealings (Capital Market Institutions Regulations Part 5, Chapter 6, Article 50)

1.1 Conflicts of Interest

It is the responsibility of a Capital Market Institution to take all necessary steps to avoid conflicts of interest between their own interest and the interests of their clients. Any actual or potential conflicts of interest need to be disclosed to the customer in writing, except when this is considered to be inside information.

When a conflict of interest cannot be disclosed because it relates to inside information, the Capital Market Institution must make sure they take reasonable steps to ensure fair treatment for the customer.

If the Capital Market Institution has disclosed the conflict of interest and the customer has decided they want to continue with the transaction, they must let the Capital Market Institution know in writing. In this case, the Capital Market Institution will not be responsible for compensation of any losses to the customer resulting from the conflict of interest.

Best execution rules continue to apply.

1.2 Chinese Walls Arrangements

A Chinese wall arrangement is a written arrangement intended to make sure that confidential or inside information obtained by the Capital Market Institution in the course of their business is only known by those employees who need to have access to it for their work. Chinese walls must be in place in firms that provide corporate finance services as well as other types of dealing, advising or managing services.

As long as effective Chinese wall arrangements are in place, the Capital Market Institution and their staff will not be in violation of insider trading when they transact in a security for which they have no access to the inside information held by another part of the firm. However, the Capital Market Institution will need to be able to prove that they have established appropriate Chinese wall arrangements for the size and nature of their business and that the arrangements are implemented and maintained. In addition, it must be proven that none of the individuals involved in the dealing or advising activity, or received advice regarding the dealing transactions or take advice from an insider.

75

---

1.3 Employees' Personal Dealings

An employee of a Capital Market Institution must not be a party to any transaction in a security where a client of the Capital Market Institution is a party. In addition, when opening an investment account at another Capital Market Institution, they must obtain prior consent from the Capital Market Institution they work for.

Employees must disclose all transactions in securities transacted using an account with another Capital Market Institution to the compliance officer. The compliance officer must establish procedures to monitor employees' personal dealings in securities to ensure they are compliant with the Law.

2. Reporting to Clients

Learning Objective

8.2.1 Know reporting requirements relating to (Capital Market Institutions' Regulations): contract notes (Part 5, Chapter 5, Article 47, Annex 5.5); valuations (Part 5, Chapter 5, Article 48, Annex 5.6)

2.1 Contract Notes

Unless the Capital Market Institution acts as a manager for the client and the client has confirmed he does not need to be sent contract notes, the Capital Market Institution needs to send a written contract note to the client following each purchase or sale of securities.

Contract notes need to specify the name and contact details of the Capital Market Institution, the name and contact details of the client, trade date and time, an identification of the securities, and other transaction details such as the price, settlement date, commission and other fees and taxes, currency (if applicable), exchange rates, and open derivatives positions (if any).

2.2 Valuations

If the Capital Market Institution acts as a manager for the client, they must send a valuation report at least every quarter. The valuation report needs to contain a description of the securities held in the portfolio, cash balances (if any), total value on the date the report is sent, the basis for valuation, currency exchange rates (if any), as well as an overview of the transaction that have taken place during the period, fees, commissions, and taxes, any securities pledged, and open derivative positions (if any).

76

---

1. Client Records

Systems and Controls

Learning Objective

8.3.1 Know record-keeping requirements for client accounts (Capital Market Institutions' Regulations Part 5, Chapter 6, Article 49) (Anti-Money Laundering Law Article 12) (Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law Article 65)

8.3.2 Know the requirements for the provision and retention of recorded telephone calls (Capital Market Institutions' Regulations Part 5, Chapter 6, Article 51)

3.1 Client Records

An Capital Market Institution must keep and maintain proper records of each transaction it effects. Such records must be current at all times and be sufficient to demonstrate compliance with these Regulations. In addition, the Capital Market Institution must keep and maintain proper records of client accounts. Client records must, at all times, accurately record the assets and liabilities of each client and of all clients collectively. In addition, client records must contain all information necessary to enable the preparation of a statement of each client's assets and liabilities, and details of transactions effected for the client; and identify all client money and client assets that the Capital Market Institution, or its custodian, are responsible for.

The records of the Capital Market Institution must contain:
1. details of all orders in a security entered by a client
2. details of all purchases and sales of a security made by the Capital Market Institution for a client, or by the Capital Market Institution for its own account
3. a record of all income and expenses for each client, explaining their nature
4. details of all receipts and payments of client money and client assets
5. a record of the cash and securities held in each client account, and 6. a record of client money and client assets.

For the purpose of Anti-Money Laundering Law and Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law, financial institutions (FIs) and designated non-financial business and professions (DNFBPs) shall keep all records and documents related to domestic or international financial transactions as well as commercial and monetary transactions for at least ten years from the date of concluding the transaction or closure of account.

For the AML purposes, Fls and DNFBPs shall also keep all records obtained through due diligence measures, account files and business correspondences and copies of personal identification documents, including the results of any analysis undertaken for at least ten years from the date the business relationship has ended or a transaction was carried out for a customer who is not in an established business relationship.

77

---

In specific cases, the Public Prosecution may oblige the firm to extend the record-keeping period for as long as required for the purpose of a criminal investigation or prosecution. Records need to be sufficient to permit reconstruction of transactions and shall be maintained in a manner so that they can be readily made available to competent authorities upon request.

3.2 Recording Telephone Calls

All telephone communications from clients or potential clients relating to securities business must be recorded, and the Capital Market Institution must disclose this to the client.

All records of telephone conversations related to securities business must be retained for a period of ten years from the date the call was concluded. In the event of a dispute or regulatory enquiry, the recordings will need to be retained until the dispute is fully resolved or the enquiry completed.

1. Management Arrangements

Learning Objective

8.4.1 Know the management arrangements that should be in place in relation to (Capital Market Institutions' Regulations): the division of responsibilities (Part 6, Chapter 2, Article 53); systems and controls (Part 6, Chapter 2, Article 54); general provisions (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 55); review by the governing body (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 56); compliance (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 57); the Compliance Committee (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 58); outsourcing (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 59); audit (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 60, 61, 62); complaints (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 63); employees (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 65); business continuity (Part 6, Chapter 3, Article 66)

4.1 Division of Responsibilities

Segregation of duties or division of responsibilities refers to the concept of needing more than one person to complete a task. This is an internal control measure to prevent errors and frauds, but also to ensure it provides clarity about who is responsible for which areas and that the business is adequately monitored and overseen by senior managers, the board of directors and the governing bodies.

Capital Market Institutions need to maintain a clear and appropriate division of the principal responsibilities among its directors and senior management. The governing body is responsible for the division of responsibilities and oversight within the organisation.

4.2 Systems and Controls

A Capital Market Institution must establish and maintain systems and controls that are appropriate to its business. The systems and controls need to consider the nature, scale and complexity of the business, the diversity of operations, the volume and value of transactions and the level of risk associated with each of the areas in the organisation.

78

---

Systems and Controls

The governing body is ultimately responsible for compliance with all laws and regulations, and having appropriate systems and controls in place will assist with this.

4.2.1 Review by a Governing Body

The review is the responsibility of the governing body who needs to maintain a regular review to assign its responsibilities, systems and supervisory functions at the Capital Market Institution, the review has to be undertaken once every three years. The actions must be monitored until they are completed. The reports following a review must be maintained for ten years from the date on which the review was completed.

4.2.2 Compliance

A Capital Market Institution must appoint a senior officer as their compliance officer. It remains the ultimate responsibility of the governing body to ensure that the firm complies with all relevant laws and Regulations.

The compliance department must be appropriately resourced, and be able to freely access all the records of the firm. The compliance officer will compose the compliance manual containing appropriate policies and procedures, and implement it throughout the organisation. The compliance manual will be periodically reviewed and amended if required. The compliance department is further responsible for the establishment of, and ensuring compliance with, a code of conduct, the preparation of reports and notifications to be filed with the Authority, and the procedures to be followed for reporting any compliance matters to the governing body.

It is the right of the Authority to review the appropriateness of a Capital Market Institution's compliance arrangements at any time.

Depending on the nature, scale and complexity of its business, a Capital Market Institution may establish a Compliance Committee to monitor its securities business and its compliance programme. The members of a Compliance Committee should include, but are not limited to, the CEO, the compliance officer and the MLRO, and the minutes of the meetings must be kept. Compliance meeting minutes must be retained for ten years.

4.2.3 Outsourcing

Outsourcing refers to the hiring of a third party to provide services or job functions on behalf of the Capital Market Institution. Specific compliance or other functions may be outsourced provided the Capital Market Institution has assessed the third party is suitable to undertake the work. An outsourcing contract must clearly state the extent and limits of the outsourced function, and suitable arrangement must be in place for the Capital Market Institution to supervise the third party. In the event there are concerns about the third party's performance, appropriate remedial action must be taken.

When selecting a third party to outsource to, the Capital Market Institution must undertake sufficient due diligence. The authorised firm remains responsible for their regulatory obligations.

79

---

4.2.4 Audit

Depending on the nature, scale and complexity of its business, a Capital Market Institution may appoint an Audit Committee. The Audit Committee must meet at least twice a year, and their meetings must be minuted. Audit Committee meeting minutes must be retained for ten years. Part of the task of monitoring the appropriateness and effectiveness of the systems and controls may be delegated to an internal audit function, provided this is in line with the scale, nature, and complexity of the business.

To ensure their independence, the internal audit function must have clear responsibilities and reporting lines to the Audit Committee or appropriate senior manager, be adequately resourced and staffed by competent individuals, be independent of the day-to-day activities of the Capital Market Institution and have appropriate access to a Capital Market Institution's records. Meetings of the internal audit function must be minuted and the minutes must be retained for a period of ten years.

It is the responsibility of a Capital Market Institution's internal auditors to review books, accounts and other records related to securities business at least once every three years. All accounts, records, terms of business and other agreements must be made available to the internal auditor.

4.2.5 Complaint Resolution

A Capital Market Institution must have written procedures in place to ensure client complaints are handled in a timely and proper manner. Complaints and any actions need to be clearly documented.
In the event a complaint arises from the actions of a third party employed or recommended by the Capital Market Institution, they will need to intervene on behalf of their client to resolve the issue.
All employees must be aware of the complaint's procedures.

4.2.6 Employees

To ensure the workforce of a Capital Market Institution consists of employees who are appropriately qualified for their jobs and are honest, adequate procedures for the recruitment, training, supervision and discipline of employees must be in place. Ongoing training must be made available to all employees.

Any disciplinary action must be documented, including the name of the employee, the conduct that gave rise to the action, as well as steps taken to discipline the employee.

Employees must be trained at least annually on any updates to the Capital Market Law and the related rules and regulations that are relevant to the business of the Capital Market Institution.

Appropriate records including recruitment procedure, experience, and qualifications must be retained for a period of ten years from the date on which the Capital Market Institution recruited the employee.

80

88

---

Systems and Controls

4.2.7 Business Continuity

A Capital Market Institution should have in place appropriate arrangements to ensure they can continue to operate in the event of an unforeseen interruption of activities. These arrangements need to be commensurate to the nature, scale and complexity of their business.

All business continuity arrangements must be documented, regularly tested, and updated if required. Documentation must be retained for a period of ten years after they are amended or no longer relevant.

118

---

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. Describe what a Chinese wall arrangement is.

Answer reference: Section 1.2

2. List the required content of the contract note.

Answer reference: Section 2.1

3. For how long do records of telephone communications need to be retained? Answer reference: Section 3.2

4. List the responsibilities of the governing body in relation to compliance. Answer reference: Section 5.2.2

5. For what time period must the Audit Committee minutes be retained? Answer reference: Section 5.2.4

82

---