---
sidebar_position: 3
title: 第3章 Authorisation
---

Introduction
1. Acquiring Authorisation
2. Maintaining Authorisation

:::info

This syllabus area will provide approximately 2 of the 50 examination questions

:::

---

Introduction

The authorisation process is regulated by the Capital Market Institutions which apply to authorised and registered persons. The regulations specify the procedures and conditions for obtaining a licence as well as the requirements in order to maintain the licence or the registration. In addition, the Capital Market Institutions contain the rules of conduct, systems and controls, and provisions related to client money and assets.

1. Acquiring Authorisation

Learning Objective

3.1.1 Know the information required in relation to applications (Capital Market Institutions Part 3, Chapter 1, Article 6, Annex 3.1)

3.1.2 Know minimum capital requirements for (Capital Market Institutions Part 3, Chapter 1, Article 6): advising; arranging; dealing; managing; custody

1.1 Application

Any person who intends to undertake securities business in the Kingdom must apply for authorisation before they can undertake the activities. All companies applying for a licence to undertake any aspect of the securities business must be established in the Kingdom, with their management and Head Office in the Kingdom. To undertake the arranging or advising activities, there are no restrictions to the legal form of incorporation. However, companies that wish to undertake securities dealing, custody and managing can only be incorporated as one of the following:
1. a subsidiary of a local bank
2. a joint stock company
3. a subsidiary of a Saudi joint stock company that is engaged in financial services business, or
4. a subsidiary of a foreign financial institution that is licensed under the Banking Control Law.

In the event there are any close links with other persons, the Authority must be satisfied of said person's integrity, systemic status, business record and financial soundness. In addition, the Authority will need to make sure that said person does not impact on the effective supervision of the applicant.

The applicants become subject to the Capital Market Institutions Regulations as soon as the application is submitted.

The application needs to contain the detailed information regarding controllers, third parties with close links, proposed operations and services, financial statements, and registered persons.

19

---

1.2 Minimum Capital Requirements

The paid-up capital of the applicant must be at least:

| Activity | Minimum Paid-up Capital |
|-|-|
| Dealing | SAR 50 million |
| Custody | SAR 50 million |
| Managing | <ul><li>Managing investments and operating funds - SAR 20 million</li><li>Managing investments - a capital that covers the expected expenses for a year</li></ul> |
| Arranging and advising | Capital that covers the expenses for the year |

2. Maintaining Authorisation

Learning Objective

3.2.1 Know how Capital Market Institutions comply with the ongoing requirement to be fit and proper (Capital Market Institutions Part 3, Chapter 2, Article 9)

2.1 Fit and Proper

In order to maintain the authorisation, a Capital Market Institution must, at all time, be fit and proper to carry out the securities business which it is authorised to carry out. The skills, experience, competence and integrity of employees, officers or agents is an important factor in assessing whether it is fit and proper. This includes adequate qualifications and professional experience, sound judgment, and diligence. In addition, they should not have committed fraud or any other dishonest offence or contravened any securities law.

20

---

Authorisation

21

---

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. What are the general requirements for authorisation?

Answer reference: Section 1.1

2. What are the fit and proper criteria?

Answer reference: Section 2.1

22

---