---
sidebar_position: 7
title: 第7章 Capital Market Institutions' Regulations
---

1. Registrable Functions 65
2. Accepting Clients 66
3. Inducements 70
4. Suitability 71

:::info

This syllabus area will provide approximately 6 of the 50 examination questions

:::

---

64

---

1. Registrable Functions

Learning Objective

7.1.1 Know the registrable functions (Capital Market Institutions Part 4, Chapter 1, Article 19)

7.1.2 Know requirements for the performance of registrable functions (Capital Market Institutions Part 4, Chapter 1, Article 20)

A registrable function is a function within a financial institution that must be performed by a registered person. These are typically functions with higher importance for the stability of the financial system, and to maintain trust in the system. They are specifically defined as follows:
1. Chief executive officer (CEO) or managing member of the board of directors
2. Chief finance officer (CFO)
3. Member of the board of directors or partner
4. Senior executives directly related to securities business
5. Compliance officer
6. Money laundering reporting officer (MLRO)
7. Employees providing clients with securities business activities such as sales representatives, investment advisors, portfolio managers, fund managers, corporate finance professionals and brokerage professionals as defined by the Authority.

In the event a Capital Market Institution temporarily has a gap in the performance of registrable functions, the Authority will not take any action against them as long as the Capital Market Institution actively seeks an appropriate substitute and to notify the Authority which registered person will temporarily take responsibility for the registrable function.

A Capital Market Institution must, at all times, have at least a CEO or managing director, a finance manager, a compliance officer, and an MLRO.

Although a person may generally perform more than one registrable function, there are limitations to ensure there are no conflicts of interest. Unless otherwise approved by the Authority, the CEO, finance manager and compliance officer must, at all times, be separate people. In addition, the compliance officer may not also perform a client function.

A Capital Market Institution whose activity is limited to managing investments, arranging and advising, are partly exempt from these requirements, may delegate the function of CFO, compliance officer or MLRO to an external party, provided the third party meets the appropriate requirements. In this context, the external party fulfilling the function of finance officer must be a certified accounting firm licensed by the Saudi Organization for Certified Public Accountants (SOCPA), and the external party responsible for the function of compliance officer or the MLRO must be a Capital Market Institution, a certified accounting firm, or a law firm authorised to appoint one of their staff as compliance officer responsible for reporting money laundering and terrorism financing to the Capital Market Institution.

65

---

2. Accepting Clients

Learning Objective

7.2.1 Know the requirements regarding client classification (Capital Market Institutions Part 5, Chapter 3, Article 36)

7.2.2 Be able to apply client acceptance obligations in accordance with the Anti-Money Laundering Law and Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law (Part 5, Chapter 3, Article 37)

7.2.3 Know the terms of business requirements (Capital Market Institutions Part 5, Chapter 3, Article 38, Annex 5.2)

7.2.4 Know the minimum information required to satisfy know your customer rules (Capital Market Institutions Part 5, Chapter 3, Article 39, Annex 5.3)

7.2.5 Understand the circumstances in which information obtained from clients may be disclosed more widely (Capital Market Institutions Part 5, Chapter 1, Article 29)

2.1 Client Classification

Before entering into any transaction with or for any client, a Capital Market Institution must classify the client as one of the following:
1. retail client
2. qualified client, or
3. institutional client.

The classifications are mutually exclusive which means the customer can only fall into one category. 

The classification must be noted on the customer's record.

2.2 Client Acceptance

Before undertaking any securities business with a client, the Capital Market Institution must make sure they apply with all the rules and regulations of the Anti-Money Laundering Law and Its Implementing Regulations, and Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law and its Implementing Regulations.

2.2.1 Cross-Border Relationships

Appropriate risk-mitigating measures must be applied before a Capital Market Institution enters into a cross-border correspondent relationship. The institution has to satisfy themselves that the correspondent bank does not permit their account to be used by a shell bank. A Capital Market Institution will not enter into, or continue with, a correspondent relationship with a shell bank or an institution that permits its accounts to be used by shell banks.

66

---

2.2.2 Wire Transfers

For each wire transfer, a Capital Market Institution has to obtain information on the originator and the beneficiary, and ensure this information is kept with the transfer or the related message. If it is not possible to obtain the required information, the wire transfer should not be executed. All records, documents, data and files will need to be kept for a period of at least ten years after the transaction is concluded or the account is closed.

2.3 Due Diligence

Capital Market Institutions are required to undertake due diligence in the following circumstances:
+ before opening a new account or establishing a new relationship
+ before carrying out a transaction for a customer with whom there is no established business relationship, whether a single transaction or a series of apparently linked transactions
+ before carrying out a wire transfer for a customer with whom there is no established relationship
+ whenever there is a suspicion of money laundering, regardless of the amount involved, or
+ whenever there are doubts either about the veracity or adequacy of previously obtained customer information or identification data.

2.3.1 CDD Measures

The Implementing Regulations to the AML Law specify the following CDD measures as a minimum that a Capital Market Institution must:

a. Identify the customer and verify the customer's identity using reliable, independent source documents, data or information:

Information relating to individuals would include:
+ Full legal name
+ Residential or national address
+ Date and place of birth
+ Nationality

Information relating to legal entities would include:
+ Name and legal form of the entity
+ Proof of its existence
+ Names of directors, senior managers or trustees
+ Address of the registered office and, if different, the principal place of business

The powers that regulate and bind the Legal Person or legal arrangement

b. Depending on the risk posed by a specific customer, the financial institution (FI) or designated non-financial business and profession (DNFBP) shall determine whether any additional information must be collected and verified.

c. Verify that any person acting on behalf of the customer is authorised by the customer to do so, and must identify and verify that person as above.

67

---

d. For Legal Persons, identify the beneficial owner and take reasonable measures to verify their
identity.

    Beneficial owners:
    + any natural person who ultimately owns or controls 25% or more of the legal entity's shares any person exercising control over the legal entity
    + if there is doubt over the identity the beneficial owners, as a last resort, identify and verify the person who holds the position of senior managing official.

    For a customer that is a legal arrangement, an FI or DNFBP shall identify and take reasonable measures to verify the identity of the endower, beholder, the beneficiaries or classes of beneficiaries, and any other natural person exercising ultimate effective control over the legal arrangement.

e. Understand and obtain additional information on the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship.

f. For the Legal Persons or legal arrangement, the ownership and control structure of the customer should be understood.

In addition to the above, the below due diligence measures are required for beneficiaries of a saving and protection insurance or other investment-related insurance policies, as soon as the beneficiary is identified or designated:
+ if the beneficiary is identified by name - take the name of that person, or
+ if the beneficiary is designated by class or other characteristics, or any other means such as deeds
+ obtain sufficient information concerning the beneficiary to ensure that the Fl will be able to identify the beneficiary prior to payout.

In any case, the identity of the beneficiary must be verified before a payout under the insurance policy is made, or prior to exercising any rights related to the policy.

When assessing whether EDD is required in related to a specific policy, the FI shall take into consideration risk factors related to the beneficiary. If the beneficiary is considered to be higher risk, the FI shall identify and verify the identity of the beneficial owner of the beneficiary at the time of payout.

For the purpose of Anti-Money Laundering Law and Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law, Fls and DNFBPs shall keep all records and documents related to domestic or international financial transactions as well as commercial and monetary transactions for at least ten years from the date of concluding the transaction or closure of account.

In addition, all records obtained through due diligence measures, account files and business correspondences and copies of personal identification documents, including the results of any analysis undertaken shall also be kept for at least ten years from the date the business relationship has ended or a transaction was carried out for a customer who is not in an established business relationship.

68

---

2.4 Term of Business

Before undertaking any business with a customer, the Capital Market Institution must provide the client with their terms of business which set out the way in which they engage with the client. The client needs to sign the terms of business, and a copy needs to be retained by the Capital Market Institution. If there are any changes to the terms of business, the new terms of business must be sent to all customers.

The terms of business must include the details of the Capital Market Institution, the investment objectives of the retail customers and any restrictions, the services that will be provided under the agreement, any fees for the services, and cancellation rights. In addition, the agreement needs to specify risk warnings, termination methods, and complaints procedures as well as any right of the Capital Market Institution to realise the customer's assets in case of default and details regarding custody, commissions, pooling of assets, if the institution intends to do so, and client money.

2.5 Know Your Customer (KYC)

In addition to the personal information required for due diligence, a Capital Market Institution also needs to obtain information about the customer's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives before entering into any transaction. This information must be updated at least every three years and when there is any change or at least once every three years. If the customer refuses to provide the relevant information, the Capital Market Institution must refuse to transact with the customer. All information needs to be recorded.

2.6 Confidentiality

In general, all customer information needs to be kept confidential, but there are some circumstances under which this is not the case. These exceptions are:

1. its disclosure is based on the Authority's or the Committees for Resolution of Securities Disputes' request under the Capital Market Law, its Implementing Regulations or the related laws, or based on the General Administration of Financial Investigations' request in accordance with the provisions of Anti-Money Laundering Law and Combating-Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law and their Implementing Regulations
2. the client has consented to its disclosure
3. its disclosure is reasonably necessary to perform a particular service for the client, or
4. the information is no longer confidential.

69

---

3. Inducements

Learning Objective

7.3.1 Know the regulation regarding inducements and the circumstances under which special commission arrangements are acceptable (Capital Market Institutions Part 5, Chapter 1, Articles 27 & 28)

3.1 Inducements and Special Commission Arrangements

An inducement is something that persuades a person to do something. For example, providing excessive gifts such as all-expenses paid trips, or expensive jewellery in return for another person to do business with you.

Capital Market Institutions may not induce a client to engage in any transaction by offering or giving gifts or inducements; or accepting gifts or inducements if doing so would conflict to a material extent with any duty which it owes to a client.

Offering to make good some or all of the losses made by a customer is also an inducement.

Special commission arrangements are arrangements where a Capital Market Institution receives trade execution services as well as other goods or services in return for a share of the commission paid on transactions directed through the intermediary. These arrangements are permitted as long as:
1. the transaction execution is the best execution
2. the goods or services are justifiably for the benefit of the Capital Market Institution's clients
3. the special commissions are disclosed in the terms of business, and
4. the amount of any fees or commission paid is reasonable.

---

4. Suitability

Learning Objective

7.4.1 Know the factors a Capital Market Institution must consider in order to meet suitability requirements (Capital Market Institutions Regulations Part 5, Chapter 4, Article 43)

7.4.2 Know the requirements regarding (Capital Market Institutions Regulations): client borrowing (Part 5, Chapter 4, Article 44); margin (Part 5, Chapter 4, Article 45)

4.1 Suitability

A Capital Market Institution must always make sure that the transaction they execute or advice they give is suitable for the customer. When assessing suitability, they need to consider all information available including the customer's knowledge, financial standing, length of time they have been operating in the relevant markets, size and nature of the transaction, and the customer's investment objective.

If the customer still wants to enter into the transaction, despite it being unsuitable for them as per the suitability report, a Capital Market Institution may execute the transaction after obtaining acknowledgment from the client provided that the suitability report records this and the acknowledgment of the client is retained.

4.2 Customer Borrowing

A Capital Market Institution shall not lend money or extend credit to a customer to enter into a securities transaction unless it is specifically agreed with the customer and the customer has specifically given consent in writing and the Capital Market Institution has made and recorded an assessment of financial standing based on information disclosed by the client and is satisfied the amount and arrangements are suitable for the customer.

4.3 Margin Requirements

Margin transactions may only be undertaken for a customer if this is specifically agreed in the terms of business with the client. The terms of business need to specifically state when the client may be required to provide margin, the form in which it can be provided, and any recourse for the Capital Market Institution if the customer does not pay. The Capital Market Institution is entitled to close out the position in any event after a period of five days from such failure.

Secured or unsecured loans or credit may be given to a client for a period of more than five days for the purpose of covering margins payments provided the appropriate credit assessments are completed and the customer's approval obtained. In relation to effecting a margin transaction on shares of companies listed on the exchange, monitoring the margin provided by the client daily, and ensuring that the margin is not less than 25% of the current value of each applicable security position.

The margin must be in the form of cash, fully-paid security positions or other acceptable collateral.

71

---

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. List the registrable functions.

Answer reference: Section 1

2. What does a Capital Market Institution need to do when they have a temporary gap in the performance of a registrable function?

Answer reference: Section 1

3. List the client classifications.

Answer reference: Section 2.1

4. When does client information not need to be kept confidential?

Answer reference: Section 2.6

5. What is a special commission arrangement?

Answer reference: Section 3.1

6. What does the Capital Market Institution need to do when a customer wants to enter into a transaction the institution has assessed as unsuitable for the client?

Answer reference: Section 4.1

7. What can a Capital Market Institution do if a customer fails to pay the margin requirement within five days after it is due?

Answer reference: Section 4.3

8. What is the minimum margin requirement?

Answer reference: Section 4.3

72

---