---
sidebar_position: 2
title: 第2章 Securities Business Regulations
---

1. The Securities Business
2. Exclusions from Authorisation
3. Securities Advertisements

This syllabus area will provide approximately 6 of the 50 examination questions

---

1. The Securities Business

Securities Business Regulations

Learning Objective

2.1.1 Know the definition of dealing (Securities Business Regulations Chapter 1, Article 2)

2.1.2 Know the definition of dealing as an agent (Securities Business Regulations, Definitions)

2.1.3 Know the definition of dealing as principal (Securities Business Regulations, Definitions)

2.1.4 Know the definition of arranging (Securities Business Regulations Chapter 1, Article 2)

2.1.5 Know the definition of managing (Securities Business Regulations Chapter 1, Article 2)

2.1.6 Know the definition of advising (Securities Business Regulations Chapter 1, Article 2) 

2.1.7 Know the definition of custody (Securities Business Regulations Chapter 1, Article 2)

A security activity shall mean any of the following activities:
1. Dealing - a person deals in a security as principal or as agent, and dealing includes to sell, buy, manage the subscription or underwrite securities.
2. Arranging - a person introduces parties in relation to the offering of securities or arrangement of their underwriting, or advises on corporate finance business.
3. Managing - a person manages a security belonging to another person in circumstances involving the exercise of discretion, or operates investment funds.
4. Advising - a person advises another person in relation to a security, which includes advising on the merits of that person dealing in it, exercising any right to deal conferred by it or in financial planning or wealth management advice.
5. Custody - a person safeguards assets belonging to another person which include a security, or arranges for another person to do so, and custody includes taking the necessary administrative measures.

If you are buying and selling on: your own account, you are acting as principal, or if on behalf of another person, you are acting as agent.

13

---

2. Exclusions from Authorisation

Learning Objective

2.2.1 Understand the rules governing activities within groups and joint enterprises (Securities Business Regulations Chapter 1, Article 8)

2.2.2 Understand the circumstances when securities activities might be excluded from authorisation (Securities Business Regulations): exempt persons (Annex 1); activities carried out in the course of non-securities business (Chapter 2, Article 9); sale of goods and supply of services (Chapter 2, Article 10); executors (Chapter 2, Article 11); sale of a company (Chapter 2, Article 12)

A security that is sold between two parties that are members of the same group or participants in a joint enterprise (and the transaction is for the purpose of the joint enterprise) is not required to be licensed. There are a number of other exemptions from authorisations.

2.1 Exempt Persons

A limited number of persons are exempt from having to obtain authorisation to undertake securities activities. These are:
1. the Government of the Kingdom
2. Saudi Central Bank
3. the Exchange and any other stock exchange approved by the Authority
4. clearing house
5. Depository Center, and
6. any supranational authority recognised by the Authority.

An insolvency practitioner is exempt in relation to activities they undertake in this capacity. An insurance company is exempt in relation to its insurance activities regulated by the Saudi Central Bank.

2.2 Activities Carried Out in the Course of Non-Securities Business

A non-securities business that undertakes a securities activity as a necessary part of their business is exempt from authorisation provided the profession or business does not otherwise constitute carrying on securities business. For example, when a law firm or accountancy firm arranges or advises on a security in the ordinary course of their business, the firm is exempt from authorisation. However, if the same firm holds themselves out as providing securities activities, they will need to obtain a licence to do so. The same applies to executors of a will who undertake securities activities in their capacity of an executor.

In the same way, in a securities activity between a supplier and a customer that is necessary or ancillary to the sale or supply of goods, there is no requirement for authorisation.

14

---

2.3 Securities Business Regulations

Activities in Connection with the Sale of a Company

Entering into a transaction is excluded from dealing, if the purpose of the transaction is to acquire or dispose of 50% or more of the voting shares in a company whose shares are not listed on the Exchange.

3. Securities Advertisements

Learning Objective

2.3.1 Know the scope of regulation in relation to securities advertisements (Securities Business Regulations Chapter 3, Articles 16, 17, 18, 19, 20)

Securities advertisements cover a broad range of marketing material including written (journals, newspapers), verbal (radio, television, conferences), and electronic (email, websites) for the purpose of inviting or inducing a person to engage in securities activity.

Advertisements in relation to securities may only be made by Capital Market Institutions, and the content must be approved by a Capital Market Institution. This does not apply to advertisements that are not made or communicated to a person in the Kingdom if they are directed only at persons outside the Kingdom.

Any advertisement related to securities activity that is exempt from authorisation is not subject to the advertisement restrictions, for example, any advertisement aimed at exempt persons, or related to exempt activities. In addition, any journalistic piece, reports required to be made under the Law of the Kingdom and the Implementing Regulations, or aimed at persons who own securities issued by the person making the advertisement, are also exempt.

15

---

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. List the activities that are securities activities.

Answer reference: Section 1

2. When is a person dealing as an agent or a principal?

Answer reference: Section 1

3. Which persons are exempt from authorisation requirements?

Answer reference: Section 2.1

4. Under which conditions are securities activities excluded from authorisation?

Answer reference: Section 2.2

5. What are the conditions for the making or communication of a securities advertisement?

Answer reference: Section 3

16

---