---
sidebar_position: 6
title: 第6章 Prohibitions
---

1. Untrue Statements
2. Manipulation and Insider Trading
3. General Sanctions and Penalties for Violations

This syllabus area will provide approximately 7 of the 50 examination questions

57
58
59

---

Prohibitions

To ensure the efficient, honest, and transparent working of the market, there are a number of prohibitions in place. The prohibitions concern untrue statements, manipulation and insider trading, and proxy solicitations and conducting securities business activities without a licence. Each of these have penalties associated with them to deter market participants from committing any of the violations. Each of these prohibitions and how they impact honest and transparent working of the market is outlined in the remainder of this section.

1. Untrue Statements

Learning Objective

6.1.1 Understand the regulations concerning the prohibition of untrue statements (Market Conduct Regulations Part 4, Article 7)

6.1.2 Know the regulations governing rumours (Market Conduct Regulations Part 4, Article 8) Understand the circumstances under which a person may be liable for damages in respect of making an untrue statement (Market Conduct Regulations Part 4, Article 10)

6.1.3 Untrue statements cover both an untruth about a material fact, and omitting to share information in order to influence the price or value of a security, or to entice someone else to trade in the security. In other words, it is false or inaccurate, a misrepresentation or an omission made by the person themselves or by someone else on their behalf.

A person should not make any untrue statements, either verbal or in writing, with the purpose to influence the price or value of a security, or to attempt someone else to trade in the security.

In this context, a material fact is any information relating to a security which would have had an impact on the price they would have been willing to buy or sell the security at if they would have known the truth.

Anyone making an untrue statement can be held liable for damages if the claimant can prove that they were not aware that the statement was untrue and that they would not have bought or sold the security at the price they did, if they would have known there is a high possibility that the statement is not true about the core incident. In addition, it must be proven that the person who made the statement knew it was untrue. In any case the claim must be in relation to the purchase or sale of a security.

1.1 Rumours

The Oxford English Dictionary defines a rumour as an 'unverified story or report of uncertain or doubtful truth'. In the current global, interconnected world rumours spread rapidly and it is often difficult, if not impossible, to identify the source. It is not easy to assess whether a rumour has an impact will have an effect on a financial market and how large the effect is likely to be. Investors may or may not decide to act on a rumour, resulting in market movements which have no basis in fact.

57

---

Not every person who passes on a rumour does this deliberately. In some cases, a person is not aware of the information is false when they pass it to someone else. Others start or pass rumours knowing the information is false. They do this deliberately with the intention of affecting the market.

Example

An unprincipled investor holding shares in a particular company could deliberately spread a rumour that the company is going to be purchased at a premium price by a larger competitor. They do this in the hope that other investors will believe it and decide to purchase shares in anticipation of a rise in value. If enough investors do so, it may result in a sharp price rise, at which point the originator of the rumour would sell their shares at a profit.

1.2 Responsibility for Making Statements

Anyone omitting a material fact can be held liable for damages if the claim is related to the purchase or sale of a security or securities. The claimant will have to prove that:
+ they were not aware the statement was untrue, and
+ they would not have purchased or sold the security, or securities, if they were aware of the untrue statement, or they would have done so at a different price.

1. Manipulation and Insider Trading

Learning Objective

6.2.1 Know activities and practices that are considered to be manipulative (Capital Market Law Chapter 8, Article 49)

6.2.2 Know what types of person are regarded as insiders (Capital Market Law Chapter 8, Article 50) Know when information should be regarded as inside information (Capital Market Law Chapter 8, Article 50)

6.2.3 Be able to analyse examples to identify instances of insider trading (Capital Market Law Chapter 8)

6.2.4 Market manipulation relates to intentional acts with the purpose to create a false or misleading impression of the market, prices, or value of any security. Market manipulation and inducing others to do so are prohibited under the Law.

The following are types of manipulation:

1. Any act or practice with the intention to create a false or misleading impression of the price and number of transactions executed in the security.

58

---

Prohibitions

2. To affect the price of one or more securities traded on the Exchange by executing a series of sale or purchase transactions creating actual or apparent active trading or causing an increase or decrease in the prices of such securities.

3. To undertake any series of transactions with the purpose of pegging or stabilising of the price of a security through any series of transactions.

An insider is a person who obtains inside information through family, or business or contractual relationships. Insiders may not directly or indirectly trade in the security to which the inside information is related, or to disclose the inside information to another person with the expectation that the other person will trade in the security.

Insider information is information obtained by an insider, which is not available to the general public and has not yet been disclosed. Also, any normal person would realise that knowledge of the nature and content of this information, its release and availability would have a material impact on the price or value of the security. The insider knows that such information is not generally available and that, if it were available, it would have a material effect on the price or value of that security.

3. General Sanctions and Penalties for Violations

Learning Objective

6.3.1 Know the sanctions that can be issued by the Committee for the Resolution of Securities Disputes for violation of any provisions of the law, regulations, and rules issued by the Authority (Capital Market Law Chapter 10, Article 59 and Article 62)

6.3.2 Know the penalties and reasonable defences relating to misstating or omitting material facts (Capital Market Law Part 5, Chapter 10, Article 56)

6.3.3 Know the penalties for undertaking, or purporting to undertake, brokerage activities without a licence (Capital Market Law Part 5, Chapter 10, Article 60)

3.1 Sanctions for Violations of the Law

In case the Authority believes a person is violating, has violated, or is about to, violate any of the laws and regulations, they can bring legal action before the Committee to issue appropriate sanction, and these possible sanctions include:

1. a warning

2. forcing the person to stop the act subject to the legal action

3. forcing the person to take the necessary steps to be taken to avert the violation, or take necessary corrective steps

4. forcing the person to pay damages resulting from a violation, or pay a penalty of to up to three times any realised gains or avoided losses as a result of the violation

5. suspending the trading in the security

6. barring the violating person from acting as a broker, portfolio manager or investment adviser for such period of time as is necessary for the safety of the market and the protection of investors

59

---

7. seizing and executing property
8. a travel ban, or
9. barring from working with entities subject to the Authority's supervision.

In addition, the Authority may impose a fine of not more than SAR 25 million per violation.
Instead of bringing legal action as outlined above, the Authority may warn the person concerned, force the person to take the necessary corrective steps, and/or impose a penalty of a maximum of SAR 5 million per violation.

The Authority is responsible for regulating the compensation procedures. They may establish compensation funds funded by the illegal gains collected in the Authority's accounts. The distribution of compensation will be approved by a decision of the Committee.

In addition to the person committing the violation, the Authority may also issue a reprimand to any other person granted authorisation involved in the violation. This reprimand may be accompanied by:
+ restrictions on their licensed activities
+ restriction on their functions or operations
+ suspension of their activities for a maximum of 12 months, or
+ revocation of their licence.

Before restricting or revoking their licence, the Authority has to give sufficient notice and give them the opportunity to a hearing where it will be assessed if they have deliberately given any materially false or misleading statement, or have deliberately broken any laws or court judgements either in the Kingdom or abroad. If the Authority finds it necessary for the safety of the makers and for investor protection, they may suspend the brokerage licence pending the final result of the hearing.

In urgent cases, the licence may be suspended for a period of maximum 60 days without a hearing or notice.

3.2 Misstating or Omitting Material Facts

A material statement or omission is any statement or omission that would have affected the purchase price if the investor would have been aware of the truth.

The damages that can be awarded is the difference between the price paid or received (with a maximum of the price at which they were offered to the public), and the price on the Exchange prior to the claim was made. If the defendant can prove that any part of the decline in value is not related to the omission or the incorrect statement the damages will be reduced accordingly.

3.3 Undertaking Brokerage Without a Licence Undertaking brokerage activities without a licence is a violation of the law.

Any agreement or contract of securities undertaken by an unlicensed broker shall be void. The violating broker cannot raise a complaint against the other party in the transaction, and the other party has the right to cancel the contract and either get their money or their securities back.

60

---

Prohibitions

61

---

62

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. What is a material fact?

Answer reference: Section 1

2. What are untrue statements defined under the Market Conduct Regulations? Answer Reference: Section 1

3. In what circumstances, might an investor be able to claim damages from a Capital Market Institution which has omitted to make a required statement?

Answer Reference: Section 1.2

4. What is an insider?

Answer reference: Section 2

5. What is inside information?

Answer reference: Section 2

6. List the types of manipulation.

Answer reference: Section 2

7. List the sanctions.

Answer reference: Section 3.1

8. What can accompany a reprimand to a broker or broker's agent if a violation has been made? Answer reference: Section 3.1

9. How can a defendant reduce the damages in relation to misstating or omitting material facts? Answer reference: Section 3.2

10. What are the consequences of undertaking brokerage without a licence?
Answer reference: Section 3.3

---