---
sidebar_position: 1
title: 第1章 Introduction to the Capital Market Authority
---

Introduction
1. Securities
2. Capital Market Authority
3. The Exchange
4. The Securities Depository Center

:::info

This syllabus area will provide approximately 7 of the 50 examination questions

:::

---

Introduction to the Capital Market Authority

Introduction

Although the Saudi Arabian Capital Markets have informally operated from 1950, the Capital Market Law (the Law) was introduced pursuant to Royal Decree M/30 dated 2/6/1424H (31/7/2003).

The aim of the Law is to create a transparent, fair and regulated market. The associated implementing regulations are continuously reviewed and, if applicable, updated to reflect developments in financial markets. The Law formally established the Capital Market Authority (the Authority) as a fully independent government organisation reporting directly to the Prime Minister. In addition, the Law covers the following:
+ regulation and development of the capital market
+ regulation of the issuance of securities
+ supervision of securities transactions
+ supervision of Capital Market Institutions licensed by the Authority, and
+ protection of investors and citizens from illegal practices.

The function of the Authority is to regulate and develop the Saudi Arabian Capital Market. This is done via the issuance of rules and regulations implementing the provisions of the Law. The Authority's basic objectives are to:
+ create an appropriate investment environment
+ boost confidence
+ reinforce transparency and disclosure standards in capital markets, and
+ protect investors and dealers from illegal acts in the market.

In order to achieve these objectives, the Authority is entrusted with the following duties:
+ regulate and develop the capital market and promote appropriate standards and techniques for all sections and entities involved in securities trade operations
+ protect investors and the public from unfair and unsound practices involving fraud, deceit, cheating, manipulation, and inside information trading
+ maintain fairness, efficiency, and transparency in transactions of securities
+ develop appropriate measures to reduce risks pertaining to transactions of securities develop, regulate, and monitor the issuance of securities and under-trading transactions regulate and monitor the activities of entities working under the Authority, and regulate and monitor full disclosure of information related to securities and issuers.

The functions stipulated in the Law are being implemented through the issuance of rules, regulations, instructions and necessary measures needed to implement the provisions of the Law.

Throughout this workbook, institutions that have obtained authorisation to operate in the Capital Markets of the Kingdom are referred to as Capital Market Institutions.

3

---

Securities

Learning Objective

1.1.1 Know the types of securities specifically covered by the Capital Market Law (Chapter 1, Article 2)

1.1.2 Know the types of instruments not covered by the Capital Market Law (Capital Market Law Chapter 1, Article 3): instruments excluded from the definition of securities; securities listed or traded outside of the Kingdom (Chapter 3, Article 26)

In the context of capital markets, the term security covers a range of financial instruments. Similar to other international financial markets, the term is specifically defined in the Law to be any one of the following:

a. convertible and tradeable shares of companies

b. tradeable debt instruments issued by companies, the government, public institutions or public organisations

c. units by investment funds, or

d. any instruments representing profit participation rights and/or any rights in the distribution of
assets.

As new instruments come to market, the Board of the Authority (the Board) will assess whether they fall under any of the existing categories, or whether an additional category may need to be added. The main consideration in the assessment is to ensure the safety of the market or the protection of investors. In addition, the Board may decide to exempt a specific instrument or rights from the definition if they believe doing so does not impact either the safety of the market, or investor protection.

The following instruments are not considered to be securities under the Law:
+ commercial bills, such as cheques
+ bills of exchange
+ order notes
+ documentary credits money transfers instruments exclusively traded among banks, and insurance policies.

Any securities listed or traded in a regulated market outside of the Kingdom are not subject to the Law
even when the order for the purchase or sale is made from the Kingdom, unless this is otherwise agreed between the Authority and foreign authorities.

4

---

1. Capital Market Authority

Learning Objective

Introduction to the Capital Market Authority

1.2.1 Know the extent of the Authority's responsibilities under the Capital Market Law and the methods that it may employ to achieve those objectives (Capital Market Law Chapter 2, Article 5)

1.2.2 Know the scope of the Authority's powers (Capital Market Law Chapter 2 Article 6)

The Law contains the legal framework for the Capital Markets in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (the Kingdom) and applies to all capital markets activity. The issuing of rules, regulations, and instructions to implement the Law is the responsibility of the Authority. The combined rules, regulations, and instructions apply to all market participants in the Kingdom, and includes, among others, regulations concerning the listing and trading of securities, licensing and supervision, and the operations of the Exchange itself.

As part of their role, the Authority has the responsibility for the development and regulation of the Exchange, the way in which the Exchange operates, and the entities trading securities on the Exchange. The main objectives are to achieve orderly trading, and efficient and fair markets.
There are a number of risks associated with securities trading including, but not restricted to, failed trades, failed settlements, insider trading and market manipulation. In order to reduce those risks, the Authority has developed a number of procedures that apply to all market participants. In addition, the Authority is responsible for the following:

1. Regulate the issuance of securities. This includes the monitoring of securities at the time they are issued as well as ongoing monitoring as long as the securities are listed on the Exchange.
2. Regulation of market participants. All market participants in the capital markets of the Kingdom, including brokers and the Exchange, are regulated, supervised, and monitored by the Authority.
3. Protection of investors against unfair, and high-risk practices by market participants as well as fraud and cheating in any way including, for example, insider trading and market manipulation.
4. Ensure the market in securities transactions is fair, efficient and transparent.
5. Requirements in relation to the information that must be disclosed to the public. The Authority has set standards for the disclosure of information related to:
   + a. securities
   + b. issuers of securities, and
   + c. dealings of major shareholders, majority investors and anyone who has, or may have, inside or sensitive information.
6. Regulations related to pledging of securities as collateral.

In addition, the Authority has developed rules and regulations in relation to the trading of securities, initial public offerings (IPOs) of securities, as well as extensive requirements in relation to the special purposes entities (SPEs) including their use, registration, issuance of securities, funds transfers, legal standing and regulation.

5

---

When the Authority issues or amends rules, regulations, or instructions (here after referred to as the Regulations) they are usually first published in draft. Any new or amended Regulations clearly state the starting date (effective date).

In the case of a suspected breach of regulations, the Authority may investigate and enforce the Law. The members of the Authority and employees designated by the Board in this respect are empowered to:
+ subpoena witnesses take evidence, and
+ require the production of any books, papers, or other documents relevant to the subject of the investigation which the Authority requires.

The Authority can request related documentation regardless of who holds it. Any information they need to determine whether or not a provision of the Law and Regulations is, or will be, breached can be requested and must be provided to the Authority promptly and without delay.

The Authority has far ranging powers, all of which are derived from the Law and Regulations, and include, but are not limited to creating policies and plans, issuing and amending Regulations, approval of securities offerings, and providing advice and recommendations to the government entities responsible for market development and the protection of securities investments regarding issues related to capital markets. It is also in the power of the Authority to suspend securities trading on the Exchange for up to one business day, but suspension of more than one day must be approved by the Minister of Finance. Other powers include:

1. approval, cancellation, suspension of listing of any Saudi security issued by any Saudi issuer on the Exchange or any stock exchange outside the Kingdom
2. prohibit any security from listing, or suspend the issuance or trading of a security on the Exchange
3. set maximum or minimum brokerage commissions
4. approve fees and other commissions charged by the Exchange, the Depository Center, and the Clearing Center
5. define standards for auditors as well as the content of annual and periodical statements, reports and other documents
6. approve Regulations and policies of the Exchange, the Depository Center, and the Clearing Center
7. establish a clear mechanism for the reporting of a breach of any article or regulation related to Capital Markets in Saudi Arabia and determine the rewards and protection to be granted to whistleblowers
8. define the professional standards for brokerage firms and their agents, and
9. determine minimum capital and financial collateral for brokerage firms and the monitoring of their financial status, ability and resilience through regular inspections and reviews to ensure compliance with the regulations. Set out appropriate arrangements for the protection of deposited cash and securities at brokerage firms.

The Authority works closely together with the Saudi Central Bank on the procedures that it intends to undertake, and which may have an impact on the monetary situation.

6

---

3. The Exchange

Learning Objective

1.3.1 Know the role and objective of the Exchange (Capital Market Law Chapter 3)

1.3.2 Know the governance structure of the Exchange (Capital Market Law Chapter 3)

1.3.3 Know the scope of the Exchange's powers (Capital Market Law Chapter 3, Article 23)

1.3.4 Know the functionality of the Committee for the Resolution of Securities Disputes (the Committee) (Chapter 4, Article 30)

The Exchange is a stock exchange licensed to carry out trading related to securities in the Kingdom. Any person who wants to undertake activities of securities must obtain a licence from the Authority. Securities may be traded on a regulated exchange outside the Kingdom. Even though it is permitted to trade on the foreign market by placing orders electronically or by phone, the securities are not subject to Regulations in the Kingdom, unless otherwise agreed between the Authority and the foreign authority.

One of the main objectives of the Exchange is to ensure a fair, efficient, and transparent market in securities trading. This applies to the listing requirements, trading rules, technical methods, and information. The Exchange is not permitted to distribute cash or dividends in kind unless this is approved by the Board.

The Exchange specifies the conditions and requirements for membership of the Exchange including any conditions and requirements. Members of the Exchange's Board have to be approved by the Authority prior to their election. The Exchange's regulations include requirements of membership, code of conduct, dispute handling, listing rules, and other related issues.

3.1 Dispute Resolution

Disputes related to public and private actions in the Capital Markets are governed by the Committee for the Resolution of Securities Disputes (the Committee). The Committee is established by the Authority and has the power to investigate and settle claims, to issue subpoenas, order the production of evidence and documents, issue decisions, and impose sanctions. The Committee consists of one or more circuits with each circuit consisting of three regular members and one substitute member, one of whom acts as Head.

The Committee's jurisdiction covers the Authority, the Exchange, the Depository Center and the Clearing Center. They have the right to reward damages and request reversion to the original status, or to issue any other decision that guarantees the rights of the person who brings the claim.

7

---

1.3.1 Committee Members

Members of the Committee are appointed by Royal Decree for a renewable term of three years. Members must have expertise and qualifications in commercial and financial affairs, and securities. To ensure independence, committee members and their families to the fourth degree must not have any (in)direct financial or commercial interest with the parties who brings the complaint or the suit.

1.3.2 Timeline

Complaints must first be filed with the Authority, and unless otherwise permitted by the Authority, can only be filed with the Committee once 90 days have passed. The Committee needs to start considering a claim within 14 days of the date it was filed.

1.3.3 Appeals

Any party may appeal the Committee's decision before the Committee. Appeals need to be raised thirty days from the date the decision was notified. The Appeal Committee for Securities Disputes consists of one or more circuits, each consisting of three regular members and one substitute member. Members of the Appeal Committee are subject to the same requirements as Committee Members (see section 1.3.1 above).

The decisions of the Appeal Panel are final.

1.3.4 Enforcement

Final decisions are enforced through the government agency responsible for the enforcement of judicial judgments.

1.3.5 Admissible Evidence

Evidence in securities cases shall be admissible in all forms including electronic or computer data, telephone recordings, facsimile messages and electronic mail.

8

---

4. The Securities Depository Center

Learning Objective

1.4.1 Know the functionality of the Center (Capital Market Law Chapter 4, Article 27)

1.4.2 Know what action may be taken by the Center in the event of an error in, or any doubt over, the information held by the Center (Capital Market Law Chapter 4, Article 27)

The Securities Depository Center is responsible for the registration of ownership of securities traded on the Exchange.

The Depository Center maintains records of the following in relation to all securities traded on the Exchange:
+ ownership settlement clearing, and
+ pledges or other claims.

The Depository Center is the only entity to register the ownership of securities traded in the Exchange and their related rights. This record is conclusive evidence and proof of ownership. Ownership registration is effective once the Depository Center has verified the authenticity of the ownership documents. Any changes in ownership will be registered by the Depository Center promptly and without delay. In the event there is doubt surrounding the ownership or in the event the Depository Center is notified that registration will cause damages to third parties, the Depository Center has the option to register ownership on a preliminary basis. The Depository Center will immediately following the preliminary registration start the process to decide how the final registration for the security will be affected.

Requests for the corrections of error in the information entered into the registry must be in writing, addressed to the manager of the Depository Center, or the person specifically appointed to deal with such requests. Once the validity of the request is confirmed, the person shown as the owner in the register will be notified of the proposed changes for review and comment.

The Depository Center is liable for any monetary damage suffered by an investor that results an error cause by proven negligence or misconduct of the Depository Center's employees. Any compensation due for the damage may be reduced or even eliminated if the claimant has contributed to causing the error in registration or if the error could have been avoided.

9

---

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. What is the definition of securities?

Answer reference: Section 1

2. List the responsibilities of the Authority.

Answer reference: Section 2

3. What are the powers of the Authority in relation to investigations?

Answer reference: Section 2

4. List the objectives of the Exchange.

Answer reference: Section 3

5. What is the composition of the Committee for the Resolution of Securities Disputes?

Answer reference: Section 1.3.2

6. At whose discretion are Appeal Panel decisions enforced? Answer reference: Section 1.3.4

7. From which date is the registration of ownership effective? Answer reference: Section 4

10

---