---
sidebar_position: 4
title: 第4章 Regulated Activities
---

1. Capital Market Institutions 25
2. Investment Funds and Collective Investment Schemes (CISS) 26
3. Prospectus Disclosures 30
4. Rules on the Offer of Securities and Continuing Obligations 31
5. Issuer Representatives 31
6. Advisors to the Issuer 32
7. The Rules for Special Purposes Entities (SPEs) 32
8. Corporate Governance Regulations 33

This syllabus area will provide approximately 13 of the 50 examination questions

23

---

Regulated Activities

1. Capital Market Institutions

Learning Objective

4.1.1 Know the principles that provide a general statement of the fundamental obligations of Capital Market Institutions (Capital Market Institutions Part 2, Article 5)

4.1.2 Know the fiduciary duties that a Capital Market Institution owes to its customers (Capital Market Institutions Part 5, Article 40 & Annex 5.4)

4.1.3 Know the restrictions placed on a Capital Market Institution's dealings with its customers when undertaking activities that involve risk (Capital Market Institutions Part 5, Article 42)

Similar to other jurisdictions, the Authority subscribes to the universal code of conduct to identify how they expect Capital Market Institutions to behave. The following 11 principles apply:
1. Conduct business with integrity - be honest and have strong moral principles.
2. Conduct business with due skill, care and diligence.
3. Efficiency of management and control - take reasonable care to organise the business' affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management policies and systems.
4. Financial prudence - maintain adequate financial resources in accordance with the rules issued by the Authority.
5. Observe standards of proper market conduct.
6. Ensure adequate protection of clients' assets.
7. Cooperate with regulators - including disclosing to the Authority any material event or change in the Capital Market Institution's business operations or organisation.
8. Communications with clients must be clear, fair and not misleading.
9. Treat customers fairly and pay due regard to their interests.
10. Resolve conflicts of interest by dealing with them fairly both between the institution and its clients as well as between a client and another client.
11. Take reasonable care to ensure the advice given to clients, decisions made on their behalf in relation to discretionary portfolio management, and any other services are suitable.

1.1 Fiduciary Duties

The financial industry is built on trust and it is, therefore, important that Capital Market Institutions always act in good faith and in the interest of the customers. Any conflicts of interest must be managed carefully (see also chapter 7, section 1 of this workbook).

A Capital Market Institution cannot use anything that belongs to the customer to make a profit. This is not restricted to the customer's money or other assets, but also applies to information they hold about the customer. The only time the Capital Market Institution may use the customer's assets or information for their benefit is if the customer has specifically given approval for this and it is fully disclosed.

It is the responsibility of the Capital Market Institution to ensure they act with the care, skill and diligence that can reasonably expected from anyone in the same position of trust and with their knowledge and experience.

25

---

1.2 Risk

Due to their position, Capital Market Institutions should always make sure the customer understands the nature and risk involved with any transaction, taking into consideration education and knowledge level, field of work, and experience of the client. Capital Market Institutions must not deal, advise, or manage for a customer in high-risk securities such as derivatives, non-retail investment funds, or illiquid securities unless they can enable said client to understand the nature of the risks involved.

2. Investment Funds and Collective Investment Schemes (CISs)

Learning Objective

4.2.1 Know the definition of investment fund as described in the Glossary of defined terms used in the Regulations and Rules of the CMA

4.2.2 Know how investment funds are established pursuant to Investment Funds Regulations and Real Estate Investment Funds Regulations

4.2.3 Know the different types and classifications of investment funds

4.2.4 Know the main related parties to the investment fund and their duties pursuant to Investment Funds Regulations and Real Estate Investment Funds Regulations

An investment fund is a collective investment scheme (CIS) aimed at providing investors therein with an opportunity to participate collectively in the profits of the scheme which is managed by a fund manager for specified fees.

A real estate investment fund is a collective real estate investment scheme aimed at providing investors therein with an opportunity to participate collectively in the profits of the scheme which is managed by a fund manager for specified fees.

A fund manager is a person who is responsible for the following:
+ management of the assets of an investment fund
+ management of the business of the investment fund, and
+ offering of units of the investment funds.

The Authority may specify, in the rules that it issues, exemptions to the above to achieve the safety of the market and the protection of the investor. Fund managers must be licensed and the Authority may waive some or all of the regulations on application. The Authority may impose a fee on fund managers and distributors.

Fund managers must act in the best interest of the investors in the fund, and are subject to the Capital Market Institutions' regulations, and their responsibilities include fund management, fund operations, offering of fund units, and ensuring accuracy of terms and conditions of the fund. Although the fund

26

---

4 Regulated Activities

manager may delegate their responsibilities and duties to a third party, they remain responsible for any losses incurred caused by fraud, negligence, misconduct or wilful default.

Public funds are established once the terms and conditions between the first potential unit holders and the fund manager are signed. The terms and conditions contain information about the fund such as the name of the fund and the fund manager, governing laws, main risks and how they are managed, fees, valuation, pricing, and distribution. The terms and conditions govern the ongoing relationship between the fund manager and the unitholders.

The unit holder of an exchange-traded fund (ETF), a closed-ended investment traded fund, or a real estate investment trust (REIT) shall be deemed to have read and accepted the fund's terms and conditions upon purchasing any unit of an ETF from the Exchange.
Investment funds can be divided into categories based on the following criteria:
+ client type who can subscribe to the investment fund
+ changing capital of the investment fund, or
+ the objective of the investment fund.

Types of investment funds based on client type who can subscribe to the fund:

Public Fund - an investment fund which is established in the Kingdom and the units in which may be offered by the fund manager to investors in the Kingdom otherwise than by way of a private placement.

Private Fund - an investment fund which is established in the Kingdom and which is not a public fund, and the units in which may be offered by the fund manager to investors in the Kingdom.

Types of investment funds based on the changing capital of the fund:

Open-Ended Investment Fund - an investment fund with changing capital, the units of which would increase with the issuance of new units, and decrease with redemption by unitholders of some or all of their units. Unitholders are entitled to redeem the value of their units at their net asset value on dealing days set in the fund's terms and conditions.

Closed-Ended Investment Fund - any investment fund which is not an open-ended investment fund.
Types of investment funds based on the objective of the fund:
1. Specialised Public Fund:
+ Money Market Funds - an investment fund with the sole objective of investing in short- term securities and money market transactions.
+ Feeder Funds - an investment fund whose primary investment objective is to invest all of its assets in another investment fund.
+ Fund of Funds - an investment fund the main objective of which is to invest all of its assets in other investment funds.
+ Capital-Protected Funds - an investment fund whose primary investment objective is to protect and return the capital invested by unit holders at a pre-determined date in the future.
+ Endowment Funds.

27

---

1. Non-Specialised Public Fund - any other public investment fund that is not a specialised fund, and is subject to the investment limitations set forth in the Investment Funds Regulations.
In addition, investments can be listed and traded in the Saudi Stock Exchange pursuant to the Investment Funds Regulations and Real Estate Investment Funds Regulations, the following represent the main types of traded funds:
+ ETF an index fund the units of which are traded on the Main Market or the Parallel Market.
+ Closed-Ended Investment Traded Fund - a closed-ended investment fund - the units of which are traded on the Main Market or the Parallel Market.
+ Real Estate Investment Fund - the units of which are traded on the Main Market or the Parallel Market, and whose primary investment objective is to invest in constructionally developed real estates, able to generate periodic and rental income, and distribute a specified percentage of the fund's net profit in cash to the unitholders in said fund during its operation period (at least annually).
+ Fund managers, investment advisors and other key staff need to have the appropriate professional qualifications, be suitable for the position, and show financial responsibility. The main parties related to investment funds are as follows:

1. Fund Manager - the Capital Market Institution carrying out the management of the assets of an investment fund or a real estate investment fund. In addition, they manage the business and the offering of units.

The fund manager acts for the benefit of unitholders in accordance with the regulations, and has primary responsibility for ensuring the fund complies with all regulations. The fund manager must develop policies and procedures to detect and treat risk including annual risk assessments. All disclosures must be complete, clear, accurate and not misleading. The fund manager compiles and annual report of complaints and actions against the firm.

1. Unitholder - a person who owns units in an investment fund or a real estate investment fund, which represents a common share in the net assets of the fund.
2. Fund Board - the fund directors appointed by the fund manager to oversee and supervise the relevant fund manager's conduct.

Main Duties:
+ a. Approve material contracts, decisions and reports involving the public fund.
+ b. Approve a written policy in regards to the voting rights.
+ c. Overseeing, approving or ratifying any conflicts of interest.
+ d. Meeting at least twice annually with the fund manager's compliance.
+ e. Confirming the completeness and accuracy of the Terms and Conditions and of any other document.
+ f. Ensuring the fund manager carries out its obligations in the best interests of the unitholders. g. 

Reviewing the performance assessment and quality of services provided.

1. Custodian - a person who is authorised under the Capital Market Institutions' Regulations to conduct the custody of securities.

28

---

Regulated Activities

A fund manager must appoint one or more custodians in the Kingdom pursuant to a written contract. When the custodian delegates any duties to third parties, they remain fully responsible for compliance with the Regulations. The custodian shall be held responsible to the fund manager and unitholders for any losses caused in the investment fund due to custodian fraud, negligence, misconduct or wilful default. The custodian shall be responsible for taking custody and protecting the fund's assets on behalf of unitholders, and taking all necessary administrative measures in relation to the custody of the fund's assets.

5. Fund Operator - the fund manager licensed to carry out the activity of managing investments and operating funds or the Capital Market Institution appointed to operate investment funds. Key duties:
+ Operating the fund.
+ Distribution of profits to unitholders.
+ Execution of subscriptions and redemption of units.
+ Valuating the assets of the fund

Pricing of units and responsibility for any wrong evaluations or pricings.

1. Auditor - fund managers must appoint an auditor when establishing a private or public fund. The auditor must be registered with the Authority, and has to be independent.

Audits must be conducted:
+ by the end of the first full calendar year for private funds (at the latest), and
+ at the end of the first full calendar year for public funds if the fund has been operating for more than nine months, or at the end of the second full calendar year if the public fund has been operating for less than nine months.

The audit fees of the auditor shall be determined by the fund manager with the approval of the fund board.

29

---

3. Prospectus Disclosures

Learning Objective

4.3.1 Know what information and statements must be contained in a prospectus relating to the issue of securities (Capital Market Law Chapter 7, Article 42)

4.3.2 Know submission requirements for issuers (Capital Market Law): offering securities to the public (Chapter 7, Article 45); who currently have securities traded on the Exchange (Chapter 7, Article 45)

3.1 Information Required for a Prospectus

3.1.1 Prospectus

A prospectus is a formal document describing the security that is being offered to potential buyers. It includes information regarding the company issuing the shares describing the nature of their business, the key senior staff members and board of directors, prospects of the issuer, and the financial position of the firm. In addition, the prospectus will provide a full description of the securities, how many will be issued, at what listing or offering price, whether they are normal, preference, or convertible shares and any obligations, rights, powers and privileges attached to them, and any commissions as appropriate. The prospectus must be submitted to the Authority for approval before the securities may be offered to investors.

3.1.2 Annual and Quarterly Financial Reporting

Any issuer who is offering securities to the public or whose securities are traded on the Exchange must submit their financial reports to the Exchange every quarter. These need to include balance sheet, profit and loss statement, and cashflow statement. In addition, the financial statement needs to include a description of the business, information on the board of directors and key staff members, an overview of how the issuer has performed over the past period and an outlook for the coming period. The financial statement needs to be audited.

Any information contained in the annual report must be kept confidential until it has been audited and disclosed to the Authority.

30

---

4. Regulated Activities

Rules on the Offer of Securities and Continuing Obligations

Learning Objective

4.4.1 Know the various ways securities may be offered in the main and secondary markets: exempt offers (Articles 3 & 6); private placement (Article 3); public offer (Article 3); Parallel Market offer (Article 3)

There are four ways in which securities may be offered in the Kingdom:

1. An exempt offer of securities is an offer that is exempt from the Rules on the Offer of Securities and Continuing Obligations, and includes, for example, government issued securities, offers of contractually-based securities, provided that the offer of unlisted contractually-based securities shall be limited to any of the following cases where:

a. all offerees are investors under the categories of Institutional and Qualified Clients

b. all offerees are employees of the issuer or of any of its affiliates, and

c. the total value of issued securities is below SAR 10 million.

2. A private placement is an offer that is restricted to Institutional and Qualified Clients, or is a limited offer.
3. A public offer is an offer open to all investors.
4. A parallel market offer is an offer of shares listed on the Parallel Market and limited to the categories of Qualified Investors.

5. Issuer Representatives

Learning Objective

4.5.1 Know the requirement for an issuer to appoint representatives to act on its behalf before the Authority (Rules on the Offer of Securities and Continuing Obligations Part 4, Chapter 1, Article 18)
An issuer must appoint two representatives to deal with the Authority, one a director, the other a senior executive.

The representative of the special purposes entity (SPE) shall be from board members, the sponsor's representatives are a board member and a senior executive.
Details of the representatives need to be made available in writing.

31

4

---

6. Advisors to the Issuer

Learning Objective

4.6.1 Know the role of the financial advisor, its obligations and duty of care (Rules on the Offer of Securities and Continuing Obligations Part 4, Chapter 2, Article 21)

4.6.2 Know the role of the legal advisor, its obligations and duty of care (Rules on the Offer of Securities and Continuing Obligations Part 4, Chapter 2, Article 22)

6.1

Requirements and Obligations of the Financial Advisor A financial advisor is the main point of contact for the Authority regarding an application for the registration and offer of securities. The financial advisor must be authorised to carry out arranging activities and any other securities business related to the services which the financial advisor agreed with the issuer to provide by the Authority. The financial advisor must undertake to ensure the issuer (or SPE and sponsor if applicable) has satisfied all conditions for the registration and offer of securities and other related requirements. In addition, they must provide any information or clarification to the Authority when requested.

6.2

Requirements and Obligations of the Legal Advisor

The legal advisor for an offer of securities must be licensed to practise their profession in the Kingdom.

1. The Rules for Special Purposes Entities (SPEs)

Learning Objective

4.7.1 Know the definition of the Special Purposes Entity (SPE), the main purposes of establishing a special purposes entity, and types of debt instruments issued by special purposes entities

The Special Purposes Entity (SPE) is an entity established and licensed from CMA under the Rules for Special Purposes Entities for debt instruments or investment units, and shall have legal personality and financial autonomy, and it shall cease to exist with the end of the purpose for which it was established.

Main Purposes of Establishing an SPE:
1. Financing through an alternative source other than loans from bank and financial institutions, by issuance of debt instruments through an SPE.
2. Assigning the issuance of debt instruments to an entity established for this purpose and it shall cease to exist with the end of the purpose for which it was established.

32

---

Regulated Activities

3. Provide the legal personality for the investment fund.
4. Protecting the rights of investors in an SPE from bankruptcy of related parties such as the sponsor in the event of issuing debt instruments or the investment fund manager in the event of issuing investment units.

Types of Debt Instruments Issued by the SPES:

Asset-backed debt instruments - means a debt instrument issued by an SPE under whose terms: 1. The entitlement of holders of the debt instrument to a return is wholly dependent on the returns generated by the SPE's assets.

2. The sponsor is not obliged to the holders of the debt instrument (whether by guarantee or otherwise) to pay any amounts.

Asset-linked recourse debt instruments - means a debt instrument issued by an SPE under whose
terms:
1. The entitlement of holders of the debt instrument to a return is defined by the ratio of the returns generated by the SPE's assets.
2. The sponsor is obliged to the holders of the debt instrument (whether by guarantee or otherwise) to pay all amounts due on the debt instrument.
Debt-based recourse debt instruments - means a debt instrument issued by an SPE under whose terms:
1. The entitlement of holders of the debt instrument to a return is not determined by the returns generated by the SPE's assets.
2. The sponsor is obliged to the holders of the debt instrument (whether by guarantee or otherwise) to pay all amounts due on the debt instrument.
3. Par value to be paid to the holders of the debt instrument at, or before, the maturity of the security.
8. Corporate Governance Regulations

Learning Objective

4.8.1 Understand the rights of shareholders of companies listed on the Exchange (Part 2, Chapter 1, Article 5)

4.8.2 Know the rules governing general assemblies of listed companies (Part 2, Chapter 2, Articles 10, 11, 12 and 13)


8.1 Shareholders' Rights Related to Shares

Shareholders of listed companies are the owners of the company and, as such, all rights related to shares shall be guaranteed to the shareholder, and particularly the following:
to obtain his/her portion of the net profits which are to be distributed in cash or through the issuance of shares to obtain his/her share of the company's assets upon liquidation

33

4

---

to attend the General or Special Shareholders' Assemblies, take part in their deliberations and vote on their decisions

to dispose of their shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Law, the Capital Market Law and their Implementing Regulations

to enquire and request viewing the books and documents of the company, including the data and information related to the activities of the company and its operational and investment strategy without prejudice to the interests of the company or breach of the Companies Law and the Capital Market Law and their Implementing Regulations

to monitor the performance of the company and the activities of the board

to hold board members accountable, to file liability lawsuits against them and appeal for nullification of the resolutions of the General and Special Shareholders' Assemblies in accordance with the conditions and restrictions provided in the Companies Law and the by-laws of the company pre-emptive rights to subscribe for new shares issued in exchange for cash unless otherwise specified in the company's by-laws or when the extraordinary general assembly (EGA) suspends the pre-emptive rights as per the Companies Law

to record their name in the company's shareholders register

to request to view a copy of the company's articles of association and by-laws (unless the company publishes them on the website), and
to nominate and elect board members.

8.2 General Shareholders' Assembly

The General Shareholders' Assembly of a company represents all shareholders. There are two types of assembly: the ordinary general assembly (OGA), and the EGA.

The board will issue an invitation to all shareholders specifying the date, place and agenda of the assembly must be announced at least 21 days prior to the date of the meeting. The invitation shall be published on the website of the company and the Exchange, as well as in a daily newspaper distributed in the region where the head office is located. The invitation may be sent to shareholders by using methods of contemporary technologies. Invitations for ordinary assemblies shall be issued upon the request of the external auditor, the audit committee, or a number of shareholders who, in combination, hold at least 5% of the share capital. The external auditor may invite the assembly to convene if the board does not invite the assembly within 30 days from the date of the external auditor's request. The company might amend the general assembly agenda within the period between publishing the announcement and the date of convening the assembly, provided that the company shall announce in the same way the first announcement was published.

Shareholders will have the opportunity to participate and vote in the meeting. This can be in person, or by using any method of contemporary technology. The board will ensure they facilitate the participation of as many shareholders as possible by choosing an appropriate place and time for the meeting. Details of shareholders who want to attend in person at the company's head office will be recorded prior to the
meeting.

34

---

Regulated Activities

8.2.1 Ordinary General Assembly (OGA) 

The OGA meets at least once per year within the six months following the end of the company's financial year. The assembly shall convene in accordance with the situations and circumstances stated in the Companies Law and Its Implementing Regulations, and the company's by-laws.

Competencies of the OGA

Except for the competencies reserved to the EGA, the OGA shall have competencies in all affairs of the company and practicality the following:
1. appointing and dismissing board members
2. giving permission to a board member to have (in) direct interest in the business and contracts with the company, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Law and Its Implementing Regulations
3. monitoring the compliance of board members with the Companies Law and its Implementing Regulations, other relevant laws and the company's by-laws, inspecting any damage that may occur as a result of their violation of such provisions or their mismanagement of the affairs of the company; and determine any resulting liability
4. formation of the audit committee is pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Law and Its Implementing Regulations
5. approving financial statements and the report of the board
6. deciding on the proposal of the board for the method of distributing the net profits
7. appointment, reappointment, and replacement of external auditors, approving their reports, and specifying their remunerations
8. look into, and respond appropriately to:

a. violations and errors committed by the external auditors when performing their duties, and

b. any difficulties reported by the external auditors regarding their empowerment by the company's board or management to review the books records, and other documents, statements and clarifications required to perform their duties, and respond to that as it deems appropriate in this regard

1. resolve to withhold setting aside statutory reserves when they reach an amount equal to 30% of the company's paid-up share capital, and resolving to distribute any surplus to shareholders in financial years where the company does not generate net profits
2.  approving proposals of the board regarding specifically agreed reserves to be used based upon the board's recommendation and in ways that benefit the company or the shareholders
3.  formation of other, specifically agreed, reserves besides the statutory and general reserves, and the formation of, and disposal of, any other reserves
4.  setting aside amounts from the company's net profits to set up social organisations for the benefit of the company's employees or to assist any such existing establishments in accordance with the Companies Law, and
5.  approving the sale of more than 50% of the assets of the company whether in one or more transactions over a period of 12 months from the date of the first selling transaction. In case selling these assets includes what falls within the powers of the EGA, the approval of the said assembly is required.

35

---

336

8.2.2 Extraordinary General Assembly (EGA)

The EGA may issue any resolutions that fall within the powers of the OGA, provided that such resolutions are issued in accordance with the issuance requirements of OGA resolutions which require that the absolute majority of shares be represented at the meeting.

The EGA is required for any resolutions that are over and above the powers of the OGA except for amendments which are deemed null and void pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Law; in accordance with the situations provided by the Companies Law and Its Implementing Regulations; to decrease share capital if it exceeds the needs of the company or when the company incurs financial losses. In addition, an EGA is required in the following circumstances:
1. resolving to create or dispose of a specifically agreed reserve as provided in the company by-laws
2. resolving to maintain or liquidate the company before the end of the term specified in the by-laws
3. approving the company's shares buybacks
4. issuing preferred shares or approving their buying, or converting ordinary shares into preferred shares or converting preferred shares into ordinary shares as per the company's by-laws and the Regulatory Rules and Procedures issued pursuant to the Companies Law related to Listed Joint Stock Companies
5. issuing debt instruments or financing deeds convertible into shares and defining the maximum number of shares that may be issued against them
6. allocating shares that are issued upon the capital increase or part of them for the employees of the company, and its affiliates (or some of them), and
7. suspending pre-emptive rights of shareholders in subscribing for the capital increase in exchange for cash or giving priority to non-shareholders in cases as deemed in the interest of the company if so stated in the company's by-laws.

---

Regulated Activities

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. List the main obligations of a Capital Market Institution.

Answer reference: Section 1

2. What does a fund manager manage?

Answer reference: Section 2

3. What is the definition of an investment fund?

Answer reference: Section 2

4. List the rules and regulations related to the supervision and regulation of portfolio managers and investment advisors.

Answer reference: Section 2

5. List the content of the quarterly and annual reports.

Answer reference: Section 3.1.2

6. What is a Special Purpose Entity (SPE)?

Answer reference: Section 7

7. List five of the General Assembly's responsibilities. Answer reference: Section 8.2.1

37

---