---
sidebar_position: 5
title: 第5章 Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Rules
---

1. Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Law 41
2. Preventative Measures 41
3. Detecting Money Laundering 47
4. Failure to Comply 49
5. Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law 50
6. Record-Keeping Requirements 51
7. Penalties for Non-Compliance 52

:::info

This syllabus area will provide approximately 5 of the 50 examination questions

:::

---

1. Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Law

Learning Objective

5.1.1 Know which acts are considered to be money laundering offences (Anti-Money Laundering Law and its Financing Law Article 2)

Within the AML Law the following acts are considered to be money laundering offences:
+ converting or transferring funds that the persons know are proceeds of crime for the purpose of disguising or concealing the illegitimate origin of the funds
+ acquiring, possessing, transporting, using, receiving or transferring funds that the person knows are the proceeds of crime, or from a criminal activity or an unlawful or illegitimate source
+ concealing or disguising the true nature, source, movement, ownership, place or disposition of funds that the persons know are derived from a criminal activity or an unlawful or illegitimate source, and
+ complicity by means of agreement, assistance, incitement, counsel, advise, facilitation, collusion or covering up any of the offences noted above.

The underlying criminal offence that generated the proceeds which are being laundered, is known as the 'predicate offence'. Under the AML Law, any act which could be punished under Shariah or statutory law is a relevant predicate offence for money laundering.

1. Preventative Measures

Learning Objective

5.2.1 Know the preventive measures that should be adopted in relation to (Anti-Money Laundering Law and its Financing Law): assessing money laundering risk (Article 5); anonymous, fictitious or numbered accounts (Article 6); due diligence (Article 7 & 11); prominent public functions (Article 8); correspondent relationships (Article 9)

The Anti-Money Laundering Law sets out a range of preventive measures which Capital Market Institutions must implement in order to reduce the risk of being utilised for the purposes of money laundering.

2.1 Risk Assessment

In line with international best practice, the AML Law, and its Implementing Regulations, require Capital Market Institutions to adopt a 'risk-based approach' which means that the firm's AML controls must be tailored to reflect the money-laundering risk to which they are exposed.

Therefore, a Capital Market Institution should devote more time, effort and resources to activities and customer relationships which pose a greater risk, and less to those with a lower risk profile.

41

---

The starting point for this approach is the risk assessment which Capital Market Institutions are required to carry out under the AML Law.
Capital Market Institutions must identify, assess and document their money laundering risks, taking into account a wide range of factors, including:
+ their customers or risk factors relating to the beneficial owner or beneficiary
+ the countries or geographic areas that the customer operates in, including the origination of destination of transactions
+ the products and services that they offer
+ the types of transactions undertaken by clients, and
+ delivery channels used to reach out to customers/engage with customers.

The purpose of the risk assessment process is to ensure that Capital Market Institutions have a comprehensive understanding of the principal areas of money laundering risk to which it is exposed.

The level of risk faced by individual Capital Market Institutions varies from very low to very high. In addition, the risk a Capital Market Institution is exposed to may vary between the various factors listed above.

For example, Capital Market Institutions may primarily offer products and services which present a low money laundering risk, but some of their customers may have business operations in countries with are defined as having a high money laundering risk.

The risk assessment must be up to date, and new products, business practices and technology enhancements must be assessed for AML risk before they are introduced.

The risk assessment must be provided to the supervisory authorities when requested.

When carrying out its risk assessment, Capital Market Institutions must also take into account variables which may increase or decrease the money laundering risk, such as:
+ the purpose of an account or relationship
+ the size of deposits or transactions undertaken by a customer, and
+ the frequency of transactions or duration of the relationship.

Opening and keeping anonymous accounts or accounts in obvious fictitious names or numbered accounts is prohibited.

Based on the outcome of the risk assessment, Capital Market Institutions must develop and implement internal policies, controls and procedures to mitigate the risk of money laundering that are appropriate to manage the risks identified.

These internal policies, controls and procedures must be monitored and updated to ensure that they remain appropriate and relevant.

42

---

2.2 Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Rules

Customer Due Diligence (CDD)

Having completed a risk assessment, Capital Market Institutions must put in place a series of measures designed to manage the risk of them being used for the purposes of money laundering. One of the most important controls is customer due diligence (CDD).

The CDD process is intended to ensure that Capital Market Institutions have sufficient knowledge of the client to have confidence that their products and services will not be utilised by the client for the purposes of money laundering, or other forms of financial crime. This process is also commonly known as and may be described as know your customer (KYC).

It is vital that CDD policies and procedures reflect the results of the risk assessment completed. In particular, Capital Market Institutions with high levels of risk in relation to money laundering need to ensure that they implement extensive and robust CDD procedures to reflect the high level of risk exposure. They would also need to apply the countermeasures prescribed by the Anti-Money Laundering Permanent Committee on high-risk countries.

Capital Market Institutions are required to apply due diligence measures to their customers.

The Implementing Regulations specify the particular circumstances in which such measures must be applied: 
+ before opening a new account or establishing a new relationship
+ before carrying out a transaction for a customer with whom there is no established business relationship, whether a single transaction or a series of apparently linked transactions
+ before carrying out a wire transfer for a customer with whom there is no established relationship
+ whenever there is a suspicion of money laundering, regardless of the amount involved, or
+ whenever there are doubts either about the veracity or adequacy of previously obtained customer information or identification data.

It is important to note that CDD activities are undertaken when onboarding a new client, after which they are regularly repeated during the relationship with the customers.

The Implementing Regulations require Capital Market Institutions to determine the extent of the CDD measures based on the risks relating to the specific business or customer relationship. In this regard, it is important to distinguish between the risk profile of the Capital Market Institution as a whole, and the risk relating to a specific customer relationship. As noted above, the implementation of CDD measures reflects the overall money laundering risk profile of the Capital Market Institution.

When determining the specific CDD measures which should be applied to a particular customer relationship, Capital Market Institutions need to also assess the level of risk posed by that client.

For example, if a Capital Market Institution with a low overall risk profile seeks to enter into a relationship with a higher risk client. It is important that the CDD measures which are applied reflect the higher risk profile of the specific customer, rather than relying on the more limited measures which might be appropriate in a lower risk context.

The CDD required will also vary depending on whether the customer is a Natural Person (ie, an individual) or a Legal Person (such as a company, trust or foundation).

43

---

2.2.1 CDD Measures

The Implementing Regulations to the AML Law specify the following CDD measures as a minimum that a Capital Market Institution must:

a. Identify the customer and verify the customer's identity using reliable, independent source documents, data or information:

|-|-|
|-|-|
| Information relating to individuals would include: | <ul><li>Full name registered in the official documents</li><li>Residential or national address</li><li>Date and place of birth</li><li>Nationality</li></ul> |
| Information relating to legal entities would include: | <ul><li>Name and legal form of the entity</li><li>Proof of its existence</li><li>Names of directors, senior managers or trustees</li><li>Address of the registered office and, if different, the principal place of business</li><li>The powers that regulate and bind the Legal Person or legal arrangement</li></ul> |

b. Depending on the risk posed by a specific customer, the financial institution or designated non-financial business and profession shall determine whether any additional information must be collected and verified.

c. Verify that any person acting on behalf of the customer is authorised by the customer to do so, and must identify and verify that person as above.

d. For Legal Persons, identify the beneficial owner and take reasonable measures to verify their identity.

Beneficial owners:
+ any natural person who ultimately owns or controls 25% or more of the legal entity's shares any person exercising control over the legal entity, or
+ if there is doubt over the identity of the beneficial owners, as a last resort, identify and verify the person who holds the position of senior managing official.

For a customer who is a corporate or a legal partnership, a financial institution or designated non-financial business or profession shall identify and take reasonable measures to verify the identity of the endower, beholder, the beneficiaries or classes of beneficiaries, and any other Natural Person exercising ultimate effective control over the legal arrangement.

e. Understand and obtain additional information on the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship.

f. For Legal Persons or legal arrangement, the ownership and control structure of the customer should be understood.

44

---

2.2.2 Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD)

As described above, CDD measures that apply to customers must be tailored to the money laundering risk profile of that customer. In the case of low risk clients, simplified measures, for example requiring less detailed information from the client, can be applied.

However, in the case of higher risk clients, enhanced due diligence (EDD) measures are required to be undertaken on any transactions or business relationships involving countries that are identified as high risk.

2.3 Prominent Public Function

Capital Market Institutions must undertake EDD in relation to customers with prominent public functions, or with senior management positions in international organisations. This is on the basis that, whilst most individuals in such positions do not engage in any criminal behaviour, their public position increases the risk that they might be involved in, or associated, with bribery or corruption including misuse or embezzlement of state assets.

The requirement for EDD is intended to ensure that the Capital Market Institution has sufficient information about the customer, so as to be confident that the transactions associated with them are legitimate.

Capital Market Institutions are required to determine whether a customer, or beneficial owner in the case of a legal entity, holds a prominent public function, either within the Kingdom or a foreign country, or in an international organisation.

Such individuals are typically described as politically exposed persons (PEPs), and the Implementing Regulations define them as follows:
+ heads of state or of government, senior politicians, senior governments, judicial or military officials, senior executives of state owned corporations and important party officials, or
+ directors, deputy directors and members of the board or equivalent function of any international organisation.

In addition to the individuals performing these roles, the rules on PEPS extend to their family members and close associates:

|-|-|
|-|-|
| Family members of a PEP | Any individual who is related to a PEP by blood or marriage to the second degree. |
| Close associates of a PEP | <ul><li>Any person who has joint beneficial ownership of a legal entity or who is in a close business relationship with a PEP.</li><li>Any person who has beneficial ownership of a legal entity or legal arrangement set up for the de facto benefit of a PEP.</li></ul> |

45

---

Whilst PEPs are recognised as higher risk clients, Capital Market Institutions are not prohibited from doing business with them. However, the Implementing Regulations to the AML Law requires that where there is the intention to enter into a business relationship with a PEP from a foreign country to, Capital Market Institutions must:
+ obtain senior management approval before establishing or continuing the relationship
+ take reasonable measures to establish the source of wealth and the source of funds of the PEP, and
+ conduct enhanced ongoing monitoring of the business relationship.

The same obligations apply in respect of a PEP from the Kingdom, if the PEP is assessed as presenting a higher risk of money laundering.

2.4 Anonymous, Fictitious or Numbered Accounts

As described above, CDD is one of the most important measures required to be implemented in order to reduce the risk that Capital Market Institutions will be used for the purposes of financial crime, including money laundering.

The Implementing Regulations stipulate that if a Capital Market Institution is unable to meet the requirements relating to CDD they may not open an account, establish a business relationship or carry out a transaction for a client.

Furthermore, anonymous or numbered accounts and accounts in obviously fictitious names are prohibited.

2.5 Correspondent Relationships

Capital Market Institutions can enter into correspondent relationships with foreign banks. These are relationships where a bank provides services to another bank (the respondent bank) such as, for wire transfers or accepting deposits.

Correspondent relationships typically allow a bank in one country to facilitate cross-border transactions for its clients, by means of a relationship with a correspondent bank in another country. Such arrangements are common and a legitimate part of international banking transactions. However, correspondent relationships can also expose a bank to increased risks relating to money laundering, primarily when a bank carries out transactions on behalf of the clients of the respondent bank. The bank carrying out the transaction has no direct relationship with the underlying client, and so must have confidence that the respondent bank has undertaken sufficient due diligence to manage any money laundering risk associated with the client relationship.

Before entering into a cross-border correspondent relationship, Capital Market Institutions must carry out a range of measures to manage the money laundering risk associated with such a relationship. These measures include assessing the correspondent firm's AML controls and obtaining senior management approval. Risk-mitigating measures include:
+ obtaining sufficient information about the respondent bank to fully understand the nature of their business
+ determining the reputation of the respondent bank and the quality of their supervision

46

---

+ determining if the respondent bank has been subject to any money laundering investigations or regulatory action
+ assessing the respondent bank's AML controls
+ clearly understanding each party's responsibilities regarding AML, and
+ satisfactory assessment that the respondent bank does not allow the use of shell banks.

A shell bank is a bank that is legally registered in a particular country, but have no physical presence there. Such banks are associated with very high money laundering risks, and Capital Market Institutions are prohibited from entering into a correspondent relationship with a shell bank, or with a respondent bank that permits the use of shell banks.

3. Detecting Money Laundering

Learning Objective

5.3.1 Know how to fulfil ongoing monitoring requirements (Anti-Money Laundering Law Articles 13 & 14)

5.3.2 Know what to do if suspicious activity is detected (Anti-Money Laundering Law Articles 15 & 16)

As set out earlier in this chapter, before entering into a new customer relationship, Capital Market Institutions must carry out a series of measures to manage the money laundering risk associated with the potential customer. This process begins with an assessment of the risk associated with the particular customer, which then allows them to determine the appropriate level of due diligence measures simplified, standard or enhanced.

Capital Market Institutions must then complete the relevant due diligence and, in the case of higher risk clients, may be required to seek senior management approval.

Due diligence must be undertaken at the start of a relationship with a customer as well as on an ongoing basis. Specific requirements in relation to ongoing monitoring of client activity are that a Capital Market Institution must:
+ monitor and scrutinise transactions, documents and data on an ongoing basis to ensure that they are consistent with the reporting entity's knowledge of the customer, the customer's commercial activities and risk profile, and where necessary the customer's source of funds
+ review complex and unusually large transactions, and any unusual pattern of transactions that have no clear economic or legal objective
+ where the risks of money laundering are higher, the financial institution (FI) or designated non-financial business and profession (DNFBP) shall perform EDD, and
+ keep records for ten years and make them available to competent authorities on request.

47

---

In order to meet these requirements, Capital Market Institutions must implement a range of measures depending on the nature of the customer relationship and the transactions being carried out. For example, for high volume, but low-risk value transactions, the monitoring may primarily be carried out by automated systems which are designed to 'flag' any suspicious or unusual transactions, or patterns of transactions. Larger or more complex transactions, on the other hand, may need to be reviewed by specialist staff with particular knowledge of money laundering methodologies and risks.

The requirement for ongoing monitoring of client activity reinforces the need for appropriate due diligence measures to be applied at the outset of the relationship. In particular, it is vital that Capital Market Institutions have a full understanding of the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship. In the absence of proper understanding of the types of transaction that a client is expected to carry out, it will be very difficult to determine whether transactions on a client's account are consistent with expectations. Poor or incomplete due diligence at the outset of a relationship is, therefore, likely to lead to inadequate monitoring of the account.

3.1 Suspicious Activity Reporting

Capital Market Institutions have a crucial role in the fight against money laundering, not only in relation to the preventative measures that they apply, but also in their response to identification, prevention and reporting of suspicious activity to the authorities.

It is rare for a Capital Market Institution to have clear proof that a particular transaction or customer account is being used for the purposes of money laundering. Criminals seeking to launder the proceeds of crime will typically disguise their money laundering activity, making it difficult to identify funds as the proceeds of crime. However, there may be various circumstances in which they suspect that a transaction or client account may be being used to facilitate money laundering. Capital Market Institutions are required to report any activity which gives rise to suspicion of money laundering, even where the firm has no specific proof of criminal activity.

Any suspect, or situation where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that funds are the proceeds of crime or are related to money laundering, must be reported to the General Directorate of Financial Intelligence. The report should include all information relating to the transaction and relevant parties, and the Capital Market Institution must respond promptly and fully to any requests for further information.

48

---

4. Failure to Comply

Learning Objective

5.4.1 Know the sanctions for violating or failing to comply with any provision of the Anti-Money Laundering Law, its Implementing Regulation and relevant decisions or circulars (Anti-Money Laundering Law and its Financing Law Articles 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32)

The Kingdom's Law allows for a wide range of penalties to be applied to any Legal or Natural Person that commits a money laundering offence. A fine of up to SAR 5 million per violation of the provisions of the AML Law by a Capital Market Institution can be imposed as well as other measures, including:
+ issue a written warning
+ issue an order to comply with a specific action
+ issue an order to report on measures to address the violation
+ monetary fine of up to SAR 5 million
+ restrict powers of directors, board members, executive of supervisory management members and controlling owners, including appointing one or more temporary controllers banning individuals from employment within the relevant industry sector dismissing or replacing directors and/or senior managers
+ suspending or restricting a Capital Market Institution's business activities, or
+ suspending, restricting or revoking a Capital Market Institution's licence.

In relation to criminal offences, the following penalties apply to individuals:

|-|-|
|-|-|
| Committing a money laundering offence | <ul><li>Imprisonment of up to ten years and no less than two years, and/or</li><li>A fine not exceeding SAR 5 million Or both</li></ul> <ul><li>A Saudi national who has served a term of imprisonment for money laundering will be barred from travelling outside the Kingdom for a period of time equal to the term of imprisonment.</li><li>A non-Saudi national will be deported from the Kingdom after serving a term of imprisonment, with no possibility of return to the Kingdom.</li></ul> |

49

---

|-|-|
|-|-|
| Committing a money laundering offence, with aggravating circumstances (such as involvement in an organised crime syndicate, use of violence or weapons, abuse of power of public office, human trafficking, exploitation of persons or minors, committing crime through a correctional, charitable, or educational institution or in a social service facility, or has a prior conviction in the Kingdom or abroad) | <ul><li>imprisonment of up to 15 years and no less than three years, and/or</li><li>a fine not exceeding SAR 7 million</li></ul> |
| Committing a money laundering offence with mitigating circumstances (such as providing information to the authorities about the offenders prior to the Authority having knowledge to assist in the investigation) | <ul><li>imprisonment of up to seven years and no less than one year, and/or</li><li>a fine not exceeding SAR 3 million</li></ul> |
| Money laundering offence committed by a legal entity (for example, a company) | <ul><li>A fine of no more than SAR 50 million, and no less than double the full value of the funds that were involved in the offence.</li><li>The Legal Person may also be prohibited temporarily or permanently from engaging in their business activities.</li></ul> |

In each case, the verdict may include publication of a summary of the verdict and related circumstances.

5. Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law

Learning Objective

5.5.1 Know the preventative measures that must be in place in relation to Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law: assessing risk (Article 63) and due diligence (Articles 64 & 66)

The Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law (the CFT law) imposes specific obligations on Capital Market Institutions in relation to the identification and prevention of terrorist financing. It requires Capital Market Institutions to implement a range of preventative measures to help mitigate the risk of the Capital Market Institution being used for such purposes.

50

---

5.1 Assessing Risk

Similar to AML, the starting point for a Capital Market Institution firm is to ensure it has a comprehensive understanding of the CFT risks to which it is exposed. A Capital Market Institution needs to be able to identify, assess, understand and document the financing of terrorism risks, taking into account a wide range of risk factors.

The particular factors listed are the same as for the AML risk assessment, namely:
+ Capital Market Institution customers
+ countries or geographic areas
+ products and services transactions, and delivery channels.

5.2 Due Diligence

In addition to the requirement for risk assessment, Capital Market Institutions are obliged to apply due diligence measures tailored to the risk profile of customers and business relationships. This includes applying EDD measures in situations where the CFT risks are high, and specifically requires the application of EDD in relation to business relationships and transactions with persons from high risk countries.

6. Record-Keeping Requirements

Learning Objective

5.6.1 Know the record-keeping requirements in relation to: Anti-Money Laundering Law (Article 12); Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law (Article 65)

In addition to meeting all of the requirements set out in the AML and CFT Laws firms must ensure they maintain all required records relating to their AML and CFT controls. These records not only provide evidence that they are meeting its various legal and regulatory obligations, but may also provide crucial information in the context of an investigation into a particular customer relationship or transaction.

Capital Market Institutions need to keep all records and documents relating to both domestic and international clients for a period of ten years from the date of concluding the transaction or closure of the account.

Due diligence documentation must be maintained for at least ten years after the end of the business relationship. In specific cases, the authorities are empowered to require records to be maintained for as long as required for the purpose of criminal investigation or prosecution.

Records must be stored in such a manner that will allow the reconstruction of transactions and can be readily made available to the authorities when requested.

Record-keeping requirements are similar for domestic and foreign financial transactions.

51

---

7. Penalties for Non-Compliance

Learning Objective

5.7.1 Know the sanctions for violating or failing to comply with any provision of the Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law its Implementing Regulations and/or relevant decisions or circulars (Combating Terrorism Crimes and its Financing Law Article 83)

Capital Market Institutions who breach any of the provisions of the CFT Law or its Implementing Regulations, may be subject to a fine of up to SAR 5 million per violation imposed by the Authority, and may also apply other measures, including:
+ Banning individuals from employment within the relevant industry sector.
+ Dismissing directors and/or senior managers.
+ Suspending or restricting business activities.
+ Suspending, restricting or revoking the licence to trade.

52

---

End of Chapter Questions

Think of an answer for each question and refer to the appropriate section for confirmation.

1. Which money laundering offences are defined by the Anti-Money Laundering Law 2017?

Answer Reference: Section 1

2. What type of information would a firm typically expect to collect as part of the customer due diligence (CDD) process for a new client?

Answer Reference: Section 2.2

3. How do the Implementing Regulations define politically exposed persons (PEPs)?

Answer Reference: Section 2.3

4. What does the AML Law require of firms in relation to ongoing monitoring of client activity?

Answer Reference: Section 3

5. To which body should a Capital Market Institution report a transaction which they suspect is being used for the purposes of money laundering?

Answer Reference: Section 3.1

6. What are the penalties for committing money laundering?

Answer Reference: Section 4

7. For how long must a Capital Market Institution keep records of the due diligence measures it undertook when opening an account?

Answer Reference: Section 6

8. What penalties can be imposed on a Capital Market Institution that fails to meet any of the obligations set out in the Countering the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) Law?

Answer Reference: Section 7

53

---